---
layout: default
title: About The Jekyll Blog
---

We started the Jekyll Blog with the goals of spreading awareness and facilitating learning about Jekyll, our favorite static site generator. Our hope is that Jekyll, for use cases in which it is well-suited, will become as popular as CMS's like WordPress are today. Right now

In 2013, one of the biggest stories about a website was not some hot startup, but rather concerned the launch of Healthcare.gov, a portal for enrolling in the United States' new shared healthcare program. Most of the discussion focused on the failures of the web application, which came in over-budget, behind schedule, and crumpled under load (none of which was necessarily atypical of a large software project). However, there was one component of the website that received less attention, but was perhaps more interesting part of the story. The landing pages for Healthcare.gov were built using a little-known tool called Jekyll. While Wordpress commands 30% of pages on the Web, and Drupal has become widely popular in government circles, for the use case of Healthcare.gov, Jekyll (paired with a robust server configuration for serving static files) was the right solution. Notably, there are no records of this portion of the site ever going down.

Thanks to the team at DevelopmentSeed (who developed the Healthcare.gov landing pages and graciously evangelized for their tech stack of choice), Jekyll had its moment in the sun in 2013. The Jekyll project itself had a major transition, as it moved out of the personal ownership of Tom Preston-Werner, it's original creator, and into the hands of a distributed external team. This was followed not long after with some significant improvements in the server architecture for GitHub Pages, one of the most popular hosting options for Jekyll blogs and sites. We saw this as an opportunity to spread Jekyll even further to the masses, and hence we started this site in early 2014.

In addition to providing general information about Jekyll and specific tutorials for common tasks, it is our goal that this site will help connect and catalyze the development of a healthy Jekyll ecosystem, akin to what already exists for WordPress and its sister projects. This ecosystem includes active discussions amongst practitioners, a beautiful variety of themes and styles, continued development of third-party plugins, analysis of notable Jekyll projects, identification of experienced Jekyll web developers, platforms and services specially tailored for hosting Jekyll sites, and Jekyll user conferences and meetups.

In order to accomplish our mission, we'll need support from the Jekyll community. If you would like to contribute to the Jekyll Blog, contact us at ____, or just fork and submit a pull request for github.com/ainc/thejekyllblog